Welcome! In this video we're going to be looking at putting our UI in world space,
so that it is compatible with the Oculus Rift. So you can see that we can look
around, we can see it in the Rift, and we're also going to be putting our UI
here, what was a Heads-Up display, also into
our Rift, too. See you in the video!
So the first thing I want to do, before we start messing around with anything, is
you'll notice if I hit play then it instantly pauses and gives me this error
message in the Console. It says "[VRDevice] Initialization of oculus failed."
Now, that is because I no longer have my Oculus Rift plugged in, and
for a lot of you that will be the case, too. So to allow you to follow along,
let's just go in and disable project settings again.
So you go to Build Settings, Player Settings, close this
window, go to the bottom, and then, you uncheck Virtual Reality
Supported. So now if I hit play, we are back to the game that we
had before! Great! Now, fortunately we can still
trial out what I want to do, without the Oculus Rift, but the
principles are the same, even if you keep that checked and you'll be able to preview
this on your Oculus Rift. So
what we need to do is sort out this UI that is not showing up.
Now, the reason that the UI doesn't show up is because, the Oculus Rift only shows
what the camera shows, so it can't show UI
because UI is overlaid after the camera has done its rendering.
So what we need to do is put this
UI in the environment around us. So
I'm going to do that by showing you on the first scene, in fact, on the
menu scene, and what we do is we take our Canvas,
in the Hierarchy, go over to the Inspector, in the Render Mode we
select World Space,
and then, if we double-click on our Canvas to position it correctly,
...
...which I'm doing with a little bit of difficulty. Ah, that's
because I'm in the Game Mode, you need to be in C Mode, and if we double-click
to position ourselves. There we go, we have our Canvas! And where is that in
relation to our puny little camera? It's very small,
it's right there, so what we need to do is take that Canvas
and move it back, and you can actually position with the POS
X and Pos Y in the Inspector. So we want it at 0, 0,
because the reference point is from the center. And now if I look back and
perhaps if I position myself behind the camera and zoom out somewhat,
you can see that the camera preview is in fact showing this
scene. So that's great! Let's hit play!
And there we go, you'll see that the scene is all visible
in the VR, and if you were to do this with the Oculus
Rift, you'd be able to look around. We could actually emulate the same effect
by putting a Player Object here instead of our Main Camera. So let's do
that! Let's get the game, save that scene,
let's Copy our Player,
and I'm going to Paste it in here, then just
remove our Main Camera. Now, I'm going to hit play,
and you see, when I look around now, the
UI is actually in the scene itself. So that is perfect, that's
exactly what we want to be achieving!
So it's your turn for a challenge! I'd like you to put the UI in the
game, so in the game scene. Do that by positioning it at a
sensible distance, so it's viewable and still before the clipping
plane of the camera. If you put it too far away, then it won't actually get rendered.
Make it visible when aiming at the targets, so that
it won't be a Heads Up Display anymore, it won't move with your head, but, at least,
the player will be able to see the score while they're aiming. And then, you
may need to scale the canvas, in order for it to fit properly
in the scene and for the text not to be too ginormous!
And then, I'd like you to repeat these steps for the game over
screen; in fact, you might just want to copy over some properties from our splash screen.
OK, so pause the video and have a go at applying your knowledge!
Welcome back! I'm going to dive right in
and have a go at doing this UI positioning! So I'm going to
save our menu scene, and I'm going to take our Canvas,
go Render Mode, World Space,
there we go, and I'm going to position it at 0, 0,
so that it should be right in front of our camera.
And if I select my camera I should see my little preview, and obviously, this is
in the wrong place because my Canvas is
too far forward. So if I look at it from the side, it is right in front of the camera,
and I want to put it out a little bit in front. Now,
it is, in fact, a ginormous Canvas, so let's
bring that in a bit. And I'm going to do that with the Scale Tool, and remember if I
scale from the middle, there we go, it's bringing it down to a more
reasonable size. I'm going to zoom in a little bit more, and
if I look at my Canvas from the front now,
so I can just use that by rotating the little widget, I can
get my UI view, my UI controllers, and
just move the scores into view.
I'm just going to bring them here. I've got to position this one
back towards the top, center-
align it, top-align it rather, and let's save
that and preview. Alright,
now when I look you see the score is visible where I'm aiming and it's
also at a sensible distance. If you preview this in VR, it will be
fairly comfortable for you to see! OK,
now finally, the last part of the challenge to was to do the game over screen. So
as I said, I'm going to copy mostly the properties that we had
from our Canvas here. So I go into the cog, I go Copy
Component, I go into my GameOverScreen, take the Canvas,
and go to its Rect Transform cog,
and Paste Component Values. But first, I actually
have to enable World Space, otherwise that is not editable. So
I'll Paste Component Values now, and let's see, if I
play, what do I get?
OK, it seems to be in World Space, but let's just check by putting our
Player object in as well.
In fact, because I've copied this Player over a couple of times now, I'm going to make a little prefab
out of him. So go into the Prefabs folder, just drag our Player into
the prefab, and then, I want to
go to my _Scenes, Game, and I want to
replace that player there, with my Prefabs Player.
I'll just drag that into the Hierarchy. I'll actually have to put it in the bottom
and Delete the original Player. That's fine because it's identical.
We just play, you'll see how identical it really is,
even though it's a little bit further away, because it's been positioned
slightly differently, but you can sort the position issue out, by just
putting it down to 0, like so.
And now, if we have a look... OK this is
too close, so we'll just put it somewhere in between, around 10,
-10, in fact. These are easy positioning
issues, that doesn't matter so much about the
prefab. There we go, so that's more like it! We probably need
to lower it a little bit, too. I'm going to make it 1 meter high instead.
There we go, I think we're back to where we started!
So now, I can use that prefab, instead of copying and pasting
into my GameOver scene. Just remember, prefabs are the sensible way of copying,
because if we ever need to change anything in our Player setup, we only have to do
that in one place and not everywhere. Now, I'll Delete my Main Camera,
hit play, and now, you can see I can
look around, and I can hit play again
and there we go! We have all our
UI now in the game and Oculus Rift compatible!
Congratulations! I'll see you in the next video!